Hello everyone and welcome to this lecture.
Let's keep going and solve.
Question for heat I'm asking you to create a rolling dice game.
OK.
Well you're basically going to print rolling the dice for example please wait.
And then we need to generate two numbers right two random numbers.
OK dice one and two and then going to ask the user do you want to roll again or not.
You know it seems that it's like kind of a while loop in here.
Let's see how can we do this.
Say OK we're going to import random.
Oh my apologies.
Let's go ahead.
Let's run that.
Let's go here.
OK.
Import random because they need to generate random numbers right.
So what I could do.
I'm going to say OK while and I need a variable here that indicates that basically I am going to keep
rolling.
Great.
So I'm gonna say OK.
Keep rolling.
All right.
If they keep rolling.
This equals two.
Yes.
I'm asking the user if basically like obviously he can do it.
The other two two ways.
First you can say OK while true which is you know all the time I'm going to keep doing it and then have
an if condition that exit the why loop in there or you can have a variable you can call it for example
keep rolling.
All right.
And you can initialize it first because you want to run that game at least once right.
So can initialize it to yes first in the beginning.
Right.
And every time I'm going to go you're going to ask is keep rolling equals Yes yes as long as it's yes
you're going to keep doing and keep repeating.
Keep playing basically right.
So let's see how can we do that when I say OK print.
Obviously here I need to print the message to the to the user right.
So I need to print message like this.
So let's go ahead and actually copy it over there right and say OK print the dice rolling.
Please wait.
Right.
OK.
It sounds good.
And here I wanted to print.
I'm going to say OK rolling results for those number one right.
And here I wanted to basically use a random random generator to generate integers.
Right.
Any random integer.
And obviously because it's a dice we know that the numbers have to range between 1 and 6.
All right.
So again I say OK random dot round int right number between 1 and 6.
That's pretty much it.
And that's pretty much it for the first days.
Right.
Let's do for the second dice too.
So you're rolling the dice dice.
Number two mistake generating around random numbers well between 1 and 6.
And that's it looks pretty pretty.
Looks ok right.
The only problem is if we on this here we haven't asked the user if he's going to be doing it again
or not.
So let's actually run it.
So if we run it you would find that basically you kind of you're stuck in the loop right.
Like there is no there is no condition here I'm not asking because.
Because it's all the time here.
The keep rolling is actually yes.
Right.
Please let's go and interrupt the colonel just in order so we won't we repeat it like you know like
hundreds of times already.
All right.
Again here because keep rolling equals Why.
Right.
We came here we is keep rolling.
Equals Y.
Yes.
So we went here.
We generated N number greater than a number.
And then we went up again.
Right.
We kept asking is keep rolling equal why.
Yes.
Because we didn't overwrite that variable yet.
Right.
So basically we need to ask the user here.
Do you want to keep playing or not.
And then I'm going to think that their value whatever using an N insert and put it in keep rolling right
and take it keep the score rolling.
Right.
Equals two inputs.
And let's take data from the users and I say okay do you want to roll again or to play again OK.
And actually can he give him some guy guidance going to say okay let's say print or like let's say Enter.
Yes to Y.
For example if you
policies enter y.
If you would like if you would like to play again.
All right.
And we can maybe force him to kind of do this or we actually don't need to to do that you can actually
do that.
I want to confuse you.
You might put like backslash for example if you wanted to skip this.
Just put it as Y and that's it for now.
OK.
So basically you're asking the user OK.
Do you want to play again or not.
If to say yes if you're like play again insert anything else if you'd like to skip right let's run that's
going to say OK you played first.
So here these are the random numbers 5 and 4 looks good.
I mean that they again are not going to see why press enter.
You're going to say OK you played again.
Right.
And they again another random numbers.
All right.
Let's run it again.
So here we said OK let's.
Let's try.
Not so pretty.
Press why going to play again and keep going if I want to exit just insert whatever insult and said
no for example insert any value end for instance and then you will find that the code has stopped basically.
All right.
OK let's keep going.
Question number five.
So I'm asking you to develop a code that prints out the multiplication table.
The code will get it from the user to enter the maximum number to be printed on the screen.
All right.
Let's see how can we do this.
Let's take a number equals two.
Obviously we need to get data from the user right.
I'm going to say okay input and I'm going to say okay enter number between 1 and 9.
OK.
So the user are going to fill the number into number.
Right.
So here basically I want to print the multiplication table That's actually easy.
I can use for loop network for I in range.
I'm going to see a clear range from one to eleven.
Right.
Why.
Because I wanted to print again numbers from 1 to 10 right.
So here I'm going to go from one to eleven and I say OK let's go ahead and print we're going to print
basically our number right.
Which basically I want to use.
It seems like I wanted to pin the number which is fixed all the time right.
And then I wanted to afterwards print the multiplication.
It seems like there's an X here right.
Yes.
It looks like a multiplication but I wanted to actually printed as kind of a string right in this.
Okay x.
Right.
So that will be the number which is whatever let's say 8 will be 8 and there is X and let's go ahead
and print another variable.
Let's say I.
So that'll be my variable here which is going to be 1 2 3 4 and so on.
Right.
Okay sounds good.
And then I wanted to print the equals and I wanted to print the actual results of the multiplication
light which is here.
This is not a string right.
This is an actual value.
Right.
So I wanted to print basically my number multiplied by I.
Which is a number which is let's say 8 which is fixed here multiplied by I which is are being updated
all the time by the for loop which is going to be 1 2 3 4 and so on up until 10.
Let's run it into the number let's say 5.
And that's our beautiful multiplication table five times one times two times three looks great.
Let's try it one more time and let's try for example seven.
Looks good.
All right.
Now we have multiplication table handy at your disposal.
Question number six I am asked to write a code that takes a maximum and minimum limits from the user
and print out the even numbers only between the provider range already.
So let's let's get the range first on a stick a minimum equals two.
And I'm going to say OK input I think value from the user right.
And I say OK enter a number let's define for example going to call it lower bound OK and let's copy
that again.
Put it here and I need to define that and make it Max right.
So I'm going to say OK min max actually let's let's me instead of having kind of you know min max here
you can call it let's say x underscore men for example or X underscore Max because these are kind of
reserved keywords.
You shouldn't be using them seeing as they enter in lower bound enter upper bound.
Right.
OK.
It's actually tested so lower about let's say 90 an upper bound let's say 200 for example.
And if we insert new cells let's take a look at X-Men press run it looks good.
It's on the score Max.
Let's run it looks good too.
All right.
OK.
And now to the fun part.
Now we wanted to actually go ahead and create a loop between our lower bound and upper bound and actually
print printouts only even numbers.
Right.
OK.
Let's see how can we do this.
When I say okay for i in range and here we have our X underscore men and X underscore Max right.
And I'm going to say okay if you found this number which is you know my B whatever number between men
and Max was even or not so was even an art if you guys remember I've done that several times before
in the past.
If you divide by two and take the remainder and the remainder was equal to zero that mean it was even
right.
Let's go ahead and actually print I let's go ahead and actually print my number.
All right.
So basically I just print only even numbers.
Let's give it a shot.
And that's what we've got here we've got nineteen ninety two ninety four.
And keep going up until one hundred and ninety eight.
All right.
Perfect.
OK.
That's great.
All right let's recap all have done so far.
So we basically created kind of rolling dice game.
Here's a question for you.
And here we created a code to basically print that our multiplication table will learned how to do for
loops here before we learned how to do while loops too.
And here question six were practiced.
How can we actually use for an if condition kind of mixed at the same time.
All right.
That's pretty much all what I have for this lecture.
I hope you guys enjoyed it and see you guys in the future lecture.